<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="ja">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/ebook_common.css" type="text/css" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/ebook_style.css" type="text/css" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/ebook_style_v.css" type="text/css" />
  <title>The Hound of the Baskervilles</title>
</head>
<body class="body_text">
<h3 class="mystyle_heading-2" id="toc-005">Chapter 4</h3>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Sir Henry Baskerville</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Our breakfast-table was cleared early, and Holmes waited in his dressing-gown for the promised interview. Our clients were punctual to their appointment, for the clock had just struck ten when Dr. Mortimer was shown up, followed by the young baronet. The latter was a small, alert, dark-eyed man about thirty years of age, very sturdily built, with thick black eyebrows and a strong, pugnacious face. He wore a ruddy-tinted tweed suit and had the weather-beaten appearance of one who has spent most of his time in the open air, and yet there was something in his steady eye and the quiet assurance of his bearing which indicated the gentleman.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;This is Sir Henry Baskerville,&quot; said Dr. Mortimer.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Why, yes,&quot; said he, &quot;and the strange thing is, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, that if my friend here had not proposed coming round to you this morning I should have come on my own account. I understand that you think out little puzzles, and I&apos;ve had one this morning which wants more thinking out than I am able to give it.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Pray take a seat, Sir Henry. Do I understand you to say that you have yourself had some remarkable experience since you arrived in London?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Nothing of much importance, Mr. Holmes. Only a joke, as like as not. It was this letter, if you can call it a letter, which reached me this morning.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>He laid an envelope upon the table, and we all bent over it. It was of common quality, grayish in colour. The address, &quot;Sir Henry Baskerville, Northumberland Hotel,&quot; was printed in rough characters; the postmark &quot;Charing Cross,&quot; and the date of posting the preceding evening.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Who knew that you were going to the Northumberland Hotel?&quot; asked Holmes, glancing keenly across at our visitor.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;No one could have known. We only decided after I met Dr. Mortimer.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;But Dr. Mortimer was no doubt already stopping there?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;No, I had been staying with a friend,&quot; said the doctor. &quot;There was no possible indication that we intended to go to this hotel.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Hum! Someone seems to be very deeply interested in your movements.&quot; Out of the envelope he took a half-sheet of foolscap paper folded into four. This he opened and spread flat upon the table. Across the middle of it a single sentence had been formed by the expedient of pasting printed words upon it. It ran: &quot;As you value your life or your reason keep away from the moor.&quot; The word &quot;moor&quot; only was printed in ink.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Now,&quot; said Sir Henry Baskerville, &quot;perhaps you will tell me, Mr. Holmes, what in thunder is the meaning of that, and who it is that takes so much interest in my affairs?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;What do you make of it, Dr. Mortimer? You must allow that there is nothing supernatural about this, at any rate?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;No, sir, but it might very well come from someone who was convinced that the business is supernatural.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;What business?&quot; asked Sir Henry sharply. &quot;It seems to me that all you gentlemen know a great deal more than I do about my own affairs.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;You shall share our knowledge before you leave this room, Sir Henry. I promise you that,&quot; said Sherlock Holmes. &quot;We will confine ourselves for the present with your permission to this very interesting document, which must have been put together and posted yesterday evening. Have you yesterday&apos;s Times, Watson?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;It is here in the corner.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Might I trouble you for it--the inside page, please, with the leading articles?&quot; He glanced swiftly over it, running his eyes up and down the columns. &quot;Capital article this on free trade. Permit me to give you an extract from it. &apos;You may be cajoled into imagining that your own special trade or your own industry will be encouraged by a protective tariff, but it stands to reason that such legislation must in the long run keep away wealth from the country, diminish the value of our imports, and lower the general conditions of life in this island.&apos; What do you think of that, Watson?&quot; cried Holmes in high glee, rubbing his hands together with satisfaction. &quot;Don&apos;t you think that is an admirable sentiment?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Dr. Mortimer looked at Holmes with an air of professional interest, and Sir Henry Baskerville turned a pair of puzzled dark eyes upon me.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I don&apos;t know much about the tariff and things of that kind,&quot; said he; &quot;but it seems to me we&apos;ve got a bit off the trail so far as that note is concerned.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;On the contrary, I think we are particularly hot upon the trail, Sir Henry. Watson here knows more about my methods than you do, but I fear that even he has not quite grasped the significance of this sentence.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;No, I confess that I see no connection.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;And yet, my dear Watson, there is so very close a connection that the one is extracted out of the other. &apos;You,&apos; &apos;your,&apos; &apos;your,&apos; &apos;life,&apos; &apos;reason,&apos; &apos;value,&apos; &apos;keep away,&apos; &apos;from the.&apos; Don&apos;t you see now whence these words have been taken?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;By thunder, you&apos;re right! Well, if that isn&apos;t smart!&quot; cried Sir Henry.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;If any possible doubt remained it is settled by the fact that &apos;keep away&apos; and &apos;from the&apos; are cut out in one piece.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Well, now--so it is!&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Really, Mr. Holmes, this exceeds anything which I could have imagined,&quot; said Dr. Mortimer, gazing at my friend in amazement. &quot;I could understand anyone saying that the words were from a newspaper; but that you should name which, and add that it came from the leading article, is really one of the most remarkable things which I have ever known. How did you do it?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I presume, Doctor, that you could tell the skull of a negro from that of an Esquimau?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Most certainly.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;But how?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Because that is my special hobby. The differences are obvious. The supra-orbital crest, the facial angle, the maxillary curve, the --&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;But this is my special hobby, and the differences are equally obvious. There is as much difference to my eyes between the leaded bourgeois type of a Times article and the slovenly print of an evening half-penny paper as there could be between your negro and your Esquimau. The detection of types is one of the most elementary branches of knowledge to the special expert in crime, though I confess that once when I was very young I confused the Leeds Mercury with the Western Morning News. But a Times leader is entirely distinctive, and these words could have been taken from nothing else. As it was done yesterday the strong probability was that we should find the words in yesterday&apos;s issue.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;So far as I can follow you, then, Mr. Holmes,&quot; said Sir Henry Baskerville, &quot;someone cut out this message with a scissors--&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Nail-scissors,&quot; said Holmes. &quot;You can see that it was a very short-bladed scissors, since the cutter had to take two snips over &apos;keep away.&apos;&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;That is so. Someone, then, cut out the message with a pair of short-bladed scissors, pasted it with paste--&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Gum,&quot; said Holmes.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;With gum on to the paper. But I want to know why the word &apos;moor&apos; should have been written?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Because he could not find it in print. The other words were all simple and might be found in any issue, but &apos;moor&apos; would be less common.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Why, of course, that would explain it. Have you read anything else in this message, Mr. Holmes?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;There are one or two indications, and yet the utmost pains have been taken to remove all clues. The address, you observe is printed in rough characters. But the Times is a paper which is seldom found in any hands but those of the highly educated. We may take it, therefore, that the letter was composed by an educated man who wished to pose as an uneducated one, and his effort to conceal his own writing suggests that that writing might be known, or come to be known, by you. Again, you will observe that the words are not gummed on in an accurate line, but that some are much higher than others. &apos;Life,&apos; for example is quite out of its proper place. That may point to carelessness or it may point to agitation and hurry upon the part of the cutter. On the whole I incline to the latter view, since the matter was evidently important, and it is unlikely that the composer of such a letter would be careless. If he were in a hurry it opens up the interesting question why he should be in a hurry, since any letter posted up to early morning would reach Sir Henry before he would leave his hotel. Did the composer fear an interruption--and from whom?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;We are coming now rather into the region of guesswork,&quot; said Dr. Mortimer.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Say, rather, into the region where we balance probabilities and choose the most likely. It is the scientific use of the imagination, but we have always some material basis on which to start our speculation. Now, you would call it a guess, no doubt, but I am almost certain that this address has been written in a hotel.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;How in the world can you say that?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;If you examine it carefully you will see that both the pen and the ink have given the writer trouble. The pen has spluttered twice in a single word, and has run dry three times in a short address, showing that there was very little ink in the bottle. Now, a private pen or ink-bottle is seldom allowed to be in such a state, and the combination of the two must be quite rare. But you know the hotel ink and the hotel pen, where it is rare to get anything else. Yes, I have very little hesitation in saying that could we examine the waste-paper baskets of the hotels around Charing Cross until we found the remains of the mutilated Times leader we could lay our hands straight upon the person who sent this singular message. Halloa! Halloa! What&apos;s this?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>He was carefully examining the foolscap, upon which the words were pasted, holding it only an inch or two from his eyes.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Well?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Nothing,&quot; said he, throwing it down. &quot;It is a blank half-sheet of paper, without even a water-mark upon it. I think we have drawn as much as we can from this curious letter; and now, Sir Henry, has anything else of interest happened to you since you have been in London?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Why, no, Mr. Holmes. I think not.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;You have not observed anyone follow or watch you?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I seem to have walked right into the thick of a dime novel,&quot; said our visitor. &quot;Why in thunder should anyone follow or watch me?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;We are coming to that. You have nothing else to report to us before we go into this matter?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Well, it depends upon what you think worth reporting.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I think anything out of the ordinary routine of life well worth reporting.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Sir Henry smiled.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I don&apos;t know much of British life yet, for I have spent nearly all my time in the States and in Canada. But I hope that to lose one of your boots is not part of the ordinary routine of life over here.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;You have lost one of your boots?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;My dear sir,&quot; cried Dr. Mortimer, &quot;it is only mislaid. You will find it when you return to the hotel. What is the use of troubling Mr. Holmes with trifles of this kind?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Well, he asked me for anything outside the ordinary routine.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Exactly,&quot; said Holmes, &quot;however foolish the incident may seem. You have lost one of your boots, you say?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Well, mislaid it, anyhow. I put them both outside my door last night, and there was only one in the morning. I could get no sense out of the chap who cleans them. The worst of it is that I only bought the pair last night in the Strand, and I have never had them on.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;If you have never worn them, why did you put them out to be cleaned?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;They were tan boots and had never been varnished. That was why I put them out.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Then I understand that on your arrival in London yesterday you went out at once and bought a pair of boots?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I did a good deal of shopping. Dr. Mortimer here went round with me. You see, if I am to be squire down there I must dress the part, and it may be that I have got a little careless in my ways out West. Among other things I bought these brown boots--gave six dollars for them--and had one stolen before ever I had them on my feet.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;It seems a singularly useless thing to steal,&quot; said Sherlock Holmes. &quot;I confess that I share Dr. Mortimer&apos;s belief that it will not be long before the missing boot is found.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;And, now, gentlemen,&quot; said the baronet with decision, &quot;it seems to me that I have spoken quite enough about the little that I know. It is time that you kept your promise and gave me a full account of what we are all driving at.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Your request is a very reasonable one,&quot; Holmes answered. &quot;Dr. Mortimer, I think you could not do better than to tell your story as you told it to us.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Thus encouraged, our scientific friend drew his papers from his pocket, and presented the whole case as he had done upon the morning before. Sir Henry Baskerville listened with the deepest attention, and with an occasional exclamation of surprise.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Well, I seem to have come into an inheritance with a vengeance,&quot; said he when the long narrative was finished. &quot;Of course, I&apos;ve heard of the hound ever since I was in the nursery. It&apos;s the pet story of the family, though I never thought of taking it seriously before. But as to my uncle&apos;s death--well, it all seems boiling up in my head, and I can&apos;t get it clear yet. You don&apos;t seem quite to have made up your mind whether it&apos;s a case for a policeman or a clergyman.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Precisely.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;And now there&apos;s this affair of the letter to me at the hotel. I suppose that fits into its place.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;It seems to show that someone knows more than we do about what goes on upon the moor,&quot; said Dr. Mortimer.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;And also,&quot; said Holmes, &quot;that someone is not ill-disposed towards you, since they warn you of danger.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Or it may be that they wish, for their own purposes, to scare me away.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Well, of course, that is possible also. I am very much indebted to you, Dr. Mortimer, for introducing me to a problem which presents several interesting alternatives. But the practical point which we now have to decide, Sir Henry, is whether it is or is not advisable for you to go to Baskerville Hall.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Why should I not go?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;There seems to be danger.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Do you mean danger from this family fiend or do you mean danger from human beings?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Well, that is what we have to find out.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Whichever it is, my answer is fixed. There is no devil in hell, Mr. Holmes, and there is no man upon earth who can prevent me from going to the home of my own people, and you may take that to be my final answer.&quot; His dark brows knitted and his face flushed to a dusky red as he spoke. It was evident that the fiery temper of the Baskervilles was not extinct in this their last representative. &quot;Meanwhile,&quot; said he, &quot;I have hardly had time to think over all that you have told me. It&apos;s a big thing for a man to have to understand and to decide at one sitting. I should like to have a quiet hour by myself to make up my mind. Now, look here, Mr. Holmes, it&apos;s half-past eleven now and I am going back right away to my hotel. Suppose you and your friend, Dr. Watson, come round and lunch with us at two. I&apos;ll be able to tell you more clearly then how this thing strikes me.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Is that convenient to you, Watson?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Perfectly.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Then you may expect us. Shall I have a cab called?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I&apos;d prefer to walk, for this affair has flurried me rather.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I&apos;ll join you in a walk, with pleasure,&quot; said his companion.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Then we meet again at two o&apos;clock. Au revoir, and good-morning!&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>We heard the steps of our visitors descend the stair and the bang of the front door. In an instant Holmes had changed from the languid dreamer to the man of action.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Your hat and boots, Watson, quick! Not a moment to lose!&quot; He rushed into his room in his dressing-gown and was back again in a few seconds in a frock-coat. We hurried together down the stairs and into the street. Dr. Mortimer and Baskerville were still visible about two hundred yards ahead of us in the direction of Oxford Street.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Shall I run on and stop them?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Not for the world, my dear Watson. I am perfectly satisfied with your company if you will tolerate mine. Our friends are wise, for it is certainly a very fine morning for a walk.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>He quickened his pace until we had decreased the distance which divided us by about half. Then, still keeping a hundred yards behind, we followed into Oxford Street and so down Regent Street. Once our friends stopped and stared into a shop window, upon which Holmes did the same. An instant afterwards he gave a little cry of satisfaction, and, following the direction of his eager eyes, I saw that a hansom cab with a man inside which had halted on the other side of the street was now proceeding slowly onward again.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;There&apos;s our man, Watson! Come along! We&apos;ll have a good look at him, if we can do no more.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>At that instant I was aware of a bushy black beard and a pair of piercing eyes turned upon us through the side window of the cab. Instantly the trapdoor at the top flew up, something was screamed to the driver, and the cab flew madly off down Regent Street. Holmes looked eagerly round for another, but no empty one was in sight. Then he dashed in wild pursuit amid the stream of the traffic, but the start was too great, and already the cab was out of sight.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;There now!&quot; said Holmes bitterly as he emerged panting and white with vexation from the tide of vehicles. &quot;Was ever such bad luck and such bad management, too? Watson, Watson, if you are an honest man you will record this also and set it against my successes!&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Who was the man?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I have not an idea.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;A spy?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Well, it was evident from what we have heard that Baskerville has been very closely shadowed by someone since he has been in town. How else could it be known so quickly that it was the Northumberland Hotel which he had chosen? If they had followed him the first day I argued that they would follow him also the second. You may have observed that I twice strolled over to the window while Dr. Mortimer was reading his legend.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Yes, I remember.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I was looking out for loiterers in the street, but I saw none. We are dealing with a clever man, Watson. This matter cuts very deep, and though I have not finally made up my mind whether it is a benevolent or a malevolent agency which is in touch with us, I am conscious always of power and design. When our friends left I at once followed them in the hopes of marking down their invisible attendant. So wily was he that he had not trusted himself upon foot, but he had availed himself of a cab so that he could loiter behind or dash past them and so escape their notice. His method had the additional advantage that if they were to take a cab he was all ready to follow them. It has, however, one obvious disadvantage.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;It puts him in the power of the cabman.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Exactly.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;What a pity we did not get the number!&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;My dear Watson, clumsy as I have been, you surely do not seriously imagine that I neglected to get the number? No. 2704 is our man. But that is no use to us for the moment.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I fail to see how you could have done more.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;On observing the cab I should have instantly turned and walked in the other direction. I should then at my leisure have hired a second cab and followed the first at a respectful distance, or, better still, have driven to the Northumberland Hotel and waited there. When our unknown had followed Baskerville home we should have had the opportunity of playing his own game upon himself and seeing where he made for. As it is, by an indiscreet eagerness, which was taken advantage of with extraordinary quickness and energy by our opponent, we have betrayed ourselves and lost our man.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>We had been sauntering slowly down Regent Street during this conversation, and Dr. Mortimer, with his companion, had long vanished in front of us.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;There is no object in our following them,&quot; said Holmes. &quot;The shadow has departed and will not return. We must see what further cards we have in our hands and play them with decision. Could you swear to that man&apos;s face within the cab?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I could swear only to the beard.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;And so could I--from which I gather that in all probability it was a false one. A clever man upon so delicate an errand has no use for a beard save to conceal his features. Come in here, Watson!&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>He turned into one of the district messenger offices, where he was warmly greeted by the manager.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Ah, Wilson, I see you have not forgotten the little case in which I had the good fortune to help you?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;No, sir, indeed I have not. You saved my good name, and perhaps my life.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;My dear fellow, you exaggerate. I have some recollection, Wilson, that you had among your boys a lad named Cartwright, who showed some ability during the investigation.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Yes, sir, he is still with us.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Could you ring him up?--thank you! And I should be glad to have change of this five-pound note.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>A lad of fourteen, with a bright, keen face, had obeyed the summons of the manager. He stood now gazing with great reverence at the famous detective.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Let me have the Hotel Directory,&quot; said Holmes. &quot;Thank you! Now, Cartwright, there are the names of twenty-three hotels here, all in the immediate neighbourhood of Charing Cross. Do you see?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Yes, sir.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;You will visit each of these in turn.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Yes, sir.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;You will begin in each case by giving the outside porter one shilling. Here are twenty-three shillings.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Yes, sir.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;You will tell him that you want to see the waste-paper of yesterday. You will say that an important telegram has miscarried and that you are looking for it. You understand?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Yes, sir.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;But what you are really looking for is the centre page of the Times with some holes cut in it with scissors. Here is a copy of the Times. It is this page. You could easily recognize it, could you not?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Yes, sir.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;In each case the outside porter will send for the hall porter, to whom also you will give a shilling. Here are twenty-three shillings. You will then learn in possibly twenty cases out of the twenty-three that the waste of the day before has been burned or removed. In the three other cases you will be shown a heap of paper and you will look for this page of the Times among it. The odds are enormously against your finding it. There are ten shillings over in case of emergencies. Let me have a report by wire at Baker Street before evening. And now, Watson, it only remains for us to find out by wire the identity of the cabman, No. 2704, and then we will drop into one of the Bond Street picture galleries and fill in the time until we are due at the hotel.&quot;</p>
</div>
<h3 class="mystyle_heading-2" id="toc-006">Chapter 5</h3>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Three Broken Threads</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Sherlock Holmes had, in a very remarkable degree, the power of detaching his mind at will. For two hours the strange business in which we had been involved appeared to be forgotten, and he was entirely absorbed in the pictures of the modern Belgian masters. He would talk of nothing but art, of which he had the crudest ideas, from our leaving the gallery until we found ourselves at the Northumberland Hotel.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Sir Henry Baskerville is upstairs expecting you,&quot; said the clerk. &quot;He asked me to show you up at once when you came.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Have you any objection to my looking at your register?&quot; said Holmes.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Not in the least.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>The book showed that two names had been added after that of Baskerville. One was Theophilus Johnson and family, of Newcastle; the other Mrs. Oldmore and maid, of High Lodge, Alton.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Surely that must be the same Johnson whom I used to know,&quot; said Holmes to the porter. &quot;A lawyer, is he not, gray-headed, and walks with a limp?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;No, sir; this is Mr. Johnson, the coal-owner, a very active gentleman, not older than yourself.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Surely you are mistaken about his trade?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;No, sir! he has used this hotel for many years, and he is very well known to us.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Ah, that settles it. Mrs. Oldmore, too; I seem to remember the name. Excuse my curiosity, but often in calling upon one friend one finds another.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;She is an invalid lady, sir. Her husband was once mayor of Gloucester. She always comes to us when she is in town.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Thank you; I am afraid I cannot claim her acquaintance. We have established a most important fact by these questions, Watson,&quot; he continued in a low voice as we went upstairs together. &quot;We know now that the people who are so interested in our friend have not settled down in his own hotel. That means that while they are, as we have seen, very anxious to watch him, they are equally anxious that he should not see them. Now, this is a most suggestive fact.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;What does it suggest?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;It suggests--halloa, my dear fellow, what on earth is the matter?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>As we came round the top of the stairs we had run up against Sir Henry Baskerville himself. His face was flushed with anger, and he held an old and dusty boot in one of his hands. So furious was he that he was hardly articulate, and when he did speak it was in a much broader and more Western dialect than any which we had heard from him in the morning.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Seems to me they are playing me for a sucker in this hotel,&quot; he cried. &quot;They&apos;ll find they&apos;ve started in to monkey with the wrong man unless they are careful. By thunder, if that chap can&apos;t find my missing boot there will be trouble. I can take a joke with the best, Mr. Holmes, but they&apos;ve got a bit over the mark this time.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Still looking for your boot?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Yes, sir, and mean to find it.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;But, surely, you said that it was a new brown boot?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;So it was, sir. And now it&apos;s an old black one.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;What! you don&apos;t mean to say----?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;That&apos;s just what I do mean to say. I only had three pairs in the world--the new brown, the old black, and the patent leathers, which I am wearing. Last night they took one of my brown ones, and to-day they have sneaked one of the black. Well, have you got it? Speak out, man, and don&apos;t stand staring!&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>An agitated German waiter had appeared upon the scene.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;No, sir; I have made inquiry all over the hotel, but I can hear no word of it.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Well, either that boot comes back before sundown or I&apos;ll see the manager and tell him that I go right straight out of this hotel.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;It shall be found, sir--I promise you that if you will have a little patience it will be found.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Mind it is, for it&apos;s the last thing of mine that I&apos;ll lose in this den of thieves. Well, well, Mr. Holmes, you&apos;ll excuse my troubling you about such a trifle----&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I think it&apos;s well worth troubling about.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Why, you look very serious over it.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;How do you explain it?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I just don&apos;t attempt to explain it. It seems the very maddest, queerest thing that ever happened to me.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;The queerest perhaps----&quot; said Holmes, thoughtfully.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;What do you make of it yourself?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Well, I don&apos;t profess to understand it yet. This case of yours is very complex, Sir Henry. When taken in conjunction with your uncle&apos;s death I am not sure that of all the five hundred cases of capital importance which I have handled there is one which cuts so deep. But we hold several threads in our hands, and the odds are that one or other of them guides us to the truth. We may waste time in following the wrong one, but sooner or later we must come upon the right.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>We had a pleasant luncheon in which little was said of the business which had brought us together. It was in the private sitting-room to which we afterwards repaired that Holmes asked Baskerville what were his intentions.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;To go to Baskerville Hall.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;And when?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;At the end of the week.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;On the whole,&quot; said Holmes, &quot;I think that your decision is a wise one. I have ample evidence that you are being dogged in London, and amid the millions of this great city it is difficult to discover who these people are or what their object can be. If their intentions are evil they might do you a mischief, and we should be powerless to prevent it. You did not know, Dr. Mortimer, that you were followed this morning from my house?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Dr. Mortimer started violently.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Followed! By whom?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;That, unfortunately, is what I cannot tell you. Have you among your neighbours or acquaintances on Dartmoor any man with a black, full beard?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;No--or, let me see--why, yes. Barrymore, Sir Charles&apos;s butler, is a man with a full, black beard.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Ha! Where is Barrymore?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;He is in charge of the Hall.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;We had best ascertain if he is really there, or if by any possibility he might be in London.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;How can you do that?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Give me a telegraph form. &apos;Is all ready for Sir Henry?&apos; That will do. Address to Mr. Barrymore, Baskerville Hall. What is the nearest telegraph-office? Grimpen. Very good, we will send a second wire to the postmaster, Grimpen: &apos;Telegram to Mr. Barrymore to be delivered into his own hand. If absent, please return wire to Sir Henry Baskerville, Northumberland Hotel.&apos; That should let us know before evening whether Barrymore is at his post in Devonshire or not.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;That&apos;s so,&quot; said Baskerville. &quot;By the way, Dr. Mortimer, who is this Barrymore, anyhow?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;He is the son of the old caretaker, who is dead. They have looked after the Hall for four generations now. So far as I know, he and his wife are as respectable a couple as any in the county.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;At the same time,&quot; said Baskerville, &quot;it&apos;s clear enough that so long as there are none of the family at the Hall these people have a mighty fine home and nothing to do.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;That is true.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Did Barrymore profit at all by Sir Charles&apos;s will?&quot; asked Holmes.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;He and his wife had five hundred pounds each.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Ha! Did they know that they would receive this?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Yes; Sir Charles was very fond of talking about the provisions of his will.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;That is very interesting.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I hope,&quot; said Dr. Mortimer, &quot;that you do not look with suspicious eyes upon everyone who received a legacy from Sir Charles, for I also had a thousand pounds left to me.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Indeed! And anyone else?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;There were many insignificant sums to individuals, and a large number of public charities. The residue all went to Sir Henry.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;And how much was the residue?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Seven hundred and forty thousand pounds.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Holmes raised his eyebrows in surprise. &quot;I had no idea that so gigantic a sum was involved,&quot; said he.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Sir Charles had the reputation of being rich, but we did not know how very rich he was until we came to examine his securities. The total value of the estate was close on to a million.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Dear me! It is a stake for which a man might well play a desperate game. And one more question, Dr. Mortimer. Supposing that anything happened to our young friend here--you will forgive the unpleasant hypothesis!--who would inherit the estate?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Since Rodger Baskerville, Sir Charles&apos;s younger brother died unmarried, the estate would descend to the Desmonds, who are distant cousins. James Desmond is an elderly clergyman in Westmoreland.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Thank you. These details are all of great interest. Have you met Mr. James Desmond?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Yes; he once came down to visit Sir Charles. He is a man of venerable appearance and of saintly life. I remember that he refused to accept any settlement from Sir Charles, though he pressed it upon him.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;And this man of simple tastes would be the heir to Sir Charles&apos;s thousands.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;He would be the heir to the estate because that is entailed. He would also be the heir to the money unless it were willed otherwise by the present owner, who can, of course, do what he likes with it.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;And have you made your will, Sir Henry?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;No, Mr. Holmes, I have not. I&apos;ve had no time, for it was only yesterday that I learned how matters stood. But in any case I feel that the money should go with the title and estate. That was my poor uncle&apos;s idea. How is the owner going to restore the glories of the Baskervilles if he has not money enough to keep up the property? House, land, and dollars must go together.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Quite so. Well, Sir Henry, I am of one mind with you as to the advisability of your going down to Devonshire without delay. There is only one provision which I must make. You certainly must not go alone.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Dr. Mortimer returns with me.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;But Dr. Mortimer has his practice to attend to, and his house is miles away from yours. With all the good will in the world he may be unable to help you. No, Sir Henry, you must take with you someone, a trusty man, who will be always by your side.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Is it possible that you could come yourself, Mr. Holmes?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;If matters came to a crisis I should endeavour to be present in person; but you can understand that, with my extensive consulting practice and with the constant appeals which reach me from many quarters, it is impossible for me to be absent from London for an indefinite time. At the present instant one of the most revered names in England is being besmirched by a blackmailer, and only I can stop a disastrous scandal. You will see how impossible it is for me to go to Dartmoor.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Whom would you recommend, then?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Holmes laid his hand upon my arm.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;If my friend would undertake it there is no man who is better worth having at your side when you are in a tight place. No one can say so more confidently than I.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>The proposition took me completely by surprise, but before I had time to answer, Baskerville seized me by the hand and wrung it heartily.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Well, now, that is real kind of you, Dr. Watson,&quot; said he. &quot;You see how it is with me, and you know just as much about the matter as I do. If you will come down to Baskerville Hall and see me through I&apos;ll never forget it.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>The promise of adventure had always a fascination for me, and I was complimented by the words of Holmes and by the eagerness with which the baronet hailed me as a companion.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I will come, with pleasure,&quot; said I. &quot;I do not know how I could employ my time better.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;And you will report very carefully to me,&quot; said Holmes. &quot;When a crisis comes, as it will do, I will direct how you shall act. I suppose that by Saturday all might be ready?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Would that suit Dr. Watson?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Perfectly.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Then on Saturday, unless you hear to the contrary, we shall meet at the 10:30 train from Paddington.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>We had risen to depart when Baskerville gave a cry, of triumph, and diving into one of the corners of the room he drew a brown boot from under a cabinet.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;My missing boot!&quot; he cried.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;May all our difficulties vanish as easily!&quot; said Sherlock Holmes.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;But it is a very singular thing,&quot; Dr. Mortimer remarked. &quot;I searched this room carefully before lunch.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;And so did I,&quot; said Baskerville. &quot;Every inch of it.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;There was certainly no boot in it then.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;In that case the waiter must have placed it there while we were lunching.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>The German was sent for but professed to know nothing of the matter, nor could any inquiry clear it up. Another item had been added to that constant and apparently purposeless series of small mysteries which had succeeded each other so rapidly. Setting aside the whole grim story of Sir Charles&apos;s death, we had a line of inexplicable incidents all within the limits of two days, which included the receipt of the printed letter, the black-bearded spy in the hansom, the loss of the new brown boot, the loss of the old black boot, and now the return of the new brown boot. Holmes sat in silence in the cab as we drove back to Baker Street, and I knew from his drawn brows and keen face that his mind, like my own, was busy in endeavouring to frame some scheme into which all these strange and apparently disconnected episodes could be fitted. All afternoon and late into the evening he sat lost in tobacco and thought.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Just before dinner two telegrams were handed in. The first ran:--</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Have just heard that Barrymore is at the Hall.--BASKERVILLE.&quot; The second:--</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Visited twenty-three hotels as directed, but sorry, to report unable to trace cut sheet of Times.--CARTWRIGHT.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;There go two of my threads, Watson. There is nothing more stimulating than a case where everything goes against you. We must cast round for another scent.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;We have still the cabman who drove the spy.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Exactly. I have wired to get his name and address from the Official Registry. I should not be surprised if this were an answer to my question.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>The ring at the bell proved to be something even more satisfactory than an answer, however, for the door opened and a rough-looking fellow entered who was evidently the man himself.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I got a message from the head office that a gent at this address had been inquiring for 2704,&quot; said he. &quot;I&apos;ve driven my cab this seven years and never a word of complaint. I came here straight from the Yard to ask you to your face what you had against me.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I have nothing in the world against you, my good man,&quot; said Holmes. &quot;On the contrary, I have half a sovereign for you if you will give me a clear answer to my questions.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Well, I&apos;ve had a good day and no mistake,&quot; said the cabman, with a grin. &quot;What was it you wanted to ask, sir?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;First of all your name and address, in case I want you again.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;John Clayton, 3 Turpey Street, the Borough. My cab is out of Shipley&apos;s Yard, near Waterloo Station.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Sherlock Holmes made a note of it.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Now, Clayton, tell me all about the fare who came and watched this house at ten o&apos;clock this morning and afterwards followed the two gentlemen down Regent Street.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>The man looked surprised and a little embarrassed. &quot;Why, there&apos;s no good my telling you things, for you seem to know as much as I do already,&quot; said he. &quot;The truth is that the gentleman told me that he was a detective and that I was to say nothing about him to anyone.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;My good fellow, this is a very serious business, and you may find yourself in a pretty bad position if you try to hide anything from me. You say that your fare told you that he was a detective?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Yes, he did.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;When did he say this?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;When he left me.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Did he say anything more?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;He mentioned his name.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Holmes cast a swift glance of triumph at me. &quot;Oh, he mentioned his name, did he? That was imprudent. What was the name that he mentioned?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;His name,&quot; said the cabman, &quot;was Mr. Sherlock Holmes.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Never have I seen my friend more completely taken aback than by the cabman&apos;s reply. For an instant he sat in silent amazement. Then he burst into a hearty laugh.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;A touch, Watson--an undeniable touch!&quot; said he. &quot;I feel a foil as quick and supple as my own. He got home upon me very prettily that time. So his name was Sherlock Holmes, was it?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Yes, sir, that was the gentleman&apos;s name.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Excellent! Tell me where you picked him up and all that occurred.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;He hailed me at half-past nine in Trafalgar Square. He said that he was a detective, and he offered me two guineas if I would do exactly what he wanted all day and ask no questions. I was glad enough to agree. First we drove down to the Northumberland Hotel and waited there until two gentlemen came out and took a cab from the rank. We followed their cab until it pulled up somewhere near here.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;This very door,&quot; said Holmes.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Well, I couldn&apos;t be sure of that, but I dare say my fare knew all about it. We pulled up half-way down the street and waited an hour and a half. Then the two gentlemen passed us, walking, and we followed down Baker Street and along ----&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I know,&quot; said Holmes.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Until we got three-quarters down Regent Street. Then my gentleman threw up the trap, and he cried that I should drive right away to Waterloo Station as hard as I could go. I whipped up the mare and we were there under the ten minutes. Then he paid up his two guineas, like a good one, and away he went into the station. Only just as he was leaving he turned round and he said: &apos;It might interest you to know that you have been driving Mr. Sherlock Holmes.&apos; That&apos;s how I come to know the name.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I see. And you saw no more of him?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Not after he went into the station.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;And how would you describe Mr. Sherlock Holmes?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>The cabman scratched his head. &quot;Well, he wasn&apos;t altogether such an easy gentleman to describe. I&apos;d put him at forty years of age, and he was of a middle height, two or three inches shorter than you, sir. He was dressed like a toff, and he had a black beard, cut square at the end, and a pale face. I don&apos;t know as I could say more than that.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Colour of his eyes?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;No, I can&apos;t say that.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Nothing more that you can remember?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;No, sir; nothing.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Well, then, here is your half-sovereign. There&apos;s another one waiting for you if you can bring any more information. Good night!&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Good night, sir, and thank you!&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>John Clayton departed chuckling, and Holmes turned to me with a shrug of his shoulders and a rueful smile.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Snap goes our third thread, and we end where we began,&quot; said he. &quot;The cunning rascal! He knew our number, knew that Sir Henry Baskerville had consulted me, spotted who I was in Regent Street, conjectured that I had got the number of the cab and would lay my hands on the driver, and so sent back this audacious message. I tell you, Watson, this time we have got a foeman who is worthy of our steel. I&apos;ve been checkmated in London. I can only wish you better luck in Devonshire. But I&apos;m not easy in my mind about it.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;About what?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;About sending you. It&apos;s an ugly business, Watson, an ugly dangerous business, and the more I see of it the less I like it. Yes, my dear fellow, you may laugh, but I give you my word that I shall be very glad to have you back safe and sound in Baker Street once more.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1_1em">
<p><span class="mystyle_character-20">Chapter</span> 6</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Baskerville Hall</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Sir Henry Baskerville and Dr. Mortimer were ready upon the appointed day, and we started as arranged for Devonshire. Mr. Sherlock Holmes drove with me to the station and gave me his last parting injunctions and advice.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I will not bias your mind by suggesting theories or suspicions, Watson,&quot; said he; &quot;I wish you simply to report facts in the fullest possible manner to me, and you can leave me to do the theorizing.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;What sort of facts?&quot; I asked.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Anything which may seem to have a bearing however indirect upon the case, and especially the relations between young Baskerville and his neighbours or any fresh particulars concerning the death of Sir Charles. I have made some inquiries myself in the last few days, but the results have, I fear, been negative. One thing only appears to be certain, and that is that Mr. James Desmond, who is the next heir, is an elderly gentleman of a very amiable disposition, so that this persecution does not arise from him. I really think that we may eliminate him entirely from our calculations. There remain the people who will actually surround Sir Henry Baskerville upon the moor.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Would it not be well in the first place to get rid of this Barrymore couple?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;By no means. You could not make a greater mistake. If they are innocent it would be a cruel injustice, and if they are guilty we should be giving up all chance of bringing it home to them. No, no, we will preserve them upon our list of suspects. Then there is a groom at the Hall, if I remember right. There are two moorland farmers. There is our friend Dr. Mortimer, whom I believe to be entirely honest, and there is his wife, of whom we know nothing. There is this naturalist, Stapleton, and there is his sister, who is said to be a young lady of attractions. There is Mr. Frankland, of Lafter Hall, who is also an unknown factor, and there are one or two other neighbours. These are the folk who must be your very special study.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I will do my best.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;You have arms, I suppose?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Yes, I thought it as well to take them.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Most certainly. Keep your revolver near you night and day, and never relax your precautions.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Our friends had already secured a first-class carriage and were waiting for us upon the platform.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;No, we have no news of any kind,&quot; said Dr. Mortimer in answer to my friend&apos;s questions. &quot;I can swear to one thing, and that is that we have not been shadowed during the last two days. We have never gone out without keeping a sharp watch, and no one could have escaped our notice.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;You have always kept together, I presume?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Except yesterday afternoon. I usually give up one day to pure amusement when I come to town, so I spent it at the Museum of the College of Surgeons.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;And I went to look at the folk in the park,&quot; said Baskerville. &quot;But we had no trouble of any kind.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;It was imprudent, all the same,&quot; said Holmes, shaking his head and looking very grave. &quot;I beg, Sir Henry, that you will not go about alone. Some great misfortune will befall you if you do. Did you get your other boot?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;No, sir, it is gone forever.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Indeed. That is very interesting. Well, good-bye,&quot; he added as the train began to glide down the platform. &quot;Bear in mind, Sir Henry, one of the phrases in that queer old legend which Dr. Mortimer has read to us, and avoid the moor in those hours of darkness when the powers of evil are exalted.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>I looked back at the platform when we had left it far behind, and saw the tall, austere figure of Holmes standing motionless and gazing after us.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>The journey was a swift and pleasant one, and I spent it in making the more intimate acquaintance of my two companions and in playing with Dr. Mortimer&apos;s spaniel. In a very few hours the brown earth had become ruddy, the brick had changed to granite, and red cows grazed in well-hedged fields where the lush grasses and more luxuriant vegetation spoke of a richer, if a damper, climate. Young Baskerville stared eagerly out of the window, and cried aloud with delight as he recognized the familiar features of the Devon scenery.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I&apos;ve been over a good part of the world since I left it, Dr. Watson,&quot; said he; &quot;but I have never seen a place to compare with it.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I never saw a Devonshire man who did not swear by his county,&quot; I remarked.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;It depends upon the breed of men quite as much as on the county,&quot; said Dr. Mortimer. &quot;A glance at our friend here reveals the rounded head of the Celt, which carries inside it the Celtic enthusiasm and power of attachment. Poor Sir Charles&apos;s head was of a very rare type, half Gaelic, half Ivernian in its characteristics. But you were very young when you last saw Baskerville Hall, were you not?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I was a boy in my &apos;teens at the time of my father&apos;s death, and had never seen the Hall, for he lived in a little cottage on the South Coast. Thence I went straight to a friend in America. I tell you it is all as new to me as it is to Dr. Watson, and I&apos;m as keen as possible to see the moor.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Are you? Then your wish is easily granted, for there is your first sight of the moor,&quot; said Dr. Mortimer, pointing out of the carriage window.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Over the green squares of the fields and the low curve of a wood there rose in the distance a gray, melancholy hill, with a strange jagged summit, dim and vague in the distance, like some fantastic landscape in a dream. Baskerville sat for a long time, his eyes fixed upon it, and I read upon his eager face how much it meant to him, this first sight of that strange spot where the men of his blood had held sway so long and left their mark so deep. There he sat, with his tweed suit and his American accent, in the corner of a prosaic railway-carriage, and yet as I looked at his dark and expressive face I felt more than ever how true a descendant he was of that long line of high-blooded, fiery, and masterful men. There were pride, valour, and strength in his thick brows, his sensitive nostrils, and his large hazel eyes. If on that forbidding moor a difficult and dangerous quest should lie before us, this was at least a comrade for whom one might venture to take a risk with the certainty that he would bravely share it.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>The train pulled up at a small wayside station and we all descended. Outside, beyond the low, white fence, a wagonette with a pair of cobs was waiting. Our coming was evidently a great event, for station-master and porters clustered round us to carry out our luggage. It was a sweet, simple country spot, but I was surprised to observe that by the gate there stood two soldierly men in dark uniforms, who leaned upon their short rifles and glanced keenly at us as we passed. The coachman, a hard-faced, gnarled little fellow, saluted Sir Henry Baskerville, and in a few minutes we were flying swiftly down the broad, white road. Rolling pasture lands curved upward on either side of us, and old gabled houses peeped out from amid the thick green foliage, but behind the peaceful and sunlit country-side there rose ever, dark against the evening sky, the long, gloomy curve of the moor, broken by the jagged and sinister hills.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>The wagonette swung round into a side road, and we curved upward through deep lanes worn by centuries of wheels, high banks on either side, heavy with dripping moss and fleshy hart&apos;s-tongue ferns. Bronzing bracken and mottled bramble gleamed in the light of the sinking sun. Still steadily rising, we passed over a narrow granite bridge, and skirted a noisy stream which gushed swiftly down, foaming and roaring amid the gray boulders. Both road and stream wound up through a valley dense with scrub oak and fir. At every turn Baskerville gave an exclamation of delight, looking eagerly about him and asking countless questions. To his eyes all seemed beautiful, but to me a tinge of melancholy lay upon the country-side, which bore so clearly the mark of the waning year. Yellow leaves carpeted the lanes and fluttered down upon us as we passed. The rattle of our wheels died away as we drove through drifts of rotting vegetation--sad gifts, as it seemed to me, for Nature to throw before the carriage of the returning heir of the Baskervilles.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Halloa!&quot; cried Dr. Mortimer, &quot;what is this?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>A steep curve of heath-clad land, an outlying spur of the moor, lay in front of us. On the summit, hard and clear like an equestrian statue upon its pedestal, was a mounted soldier, dark and stern, his rifle poised ready over his forearm. He was watching the road along which we travelled.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;What is this, Perkins?&quot; asked Dr. Mortimer.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Our driver half turned in his seat.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;There&apos;s a convict escaped from Princetown, sir. He&apos;s been out three days now, and the warders watch every road and every station, but they&apos;ve had no sight of him yet. The farmers about here don&apos;t like it, sir, and that&apos;s a fact.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Well, I understand that they get five pounds if they can give information.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Yes, sir, but the chance of five pounds is but a poor thing compared to the chance of having your throat cut. You see, it isn&apos;t like any ordinary convict. This is a man that would stick at nothing.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Who is he, then?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;It is Selden, the Notting Hill murderer.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>I remembered the case well, for it was one in which Holmes had taken an interest on account of the peculiar ferocity of the crime and the wanton brutality which had marked all the actions of the assassin. The commutation of his death sentence had been due to some doubts as to his complete sanity, so atrocious was his conduct. Our wagonette had topped a rise and in front of us rose the huge expanse of the moor, mottled with gnarled and craggy cairns and tors. A cold wind swept down from it and set us shivering. Somewhere there, on that desolate plain, was lurking this fiendish man, hiding in a burrow like a wild beast, his heart full of malignancy against the whole race which had cast him out. It needed but this to complete the grim suggestiveness of the barren waste, the chilling wind, and the darkling sky. Even Baskerville fell silent and pulled his overcoat more closely around him.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>We had left the fertile country behind and beneath us. We looked back on it now, the slanting rays of a low sun turning the streams to threads of gold and glowing on the red earth new turned by the plough and the broad tangle of the woodlands. The road in front of us grew bleaker and wilder over huge russet and olive slopes, sprinkled with giant boulders. Now and then we passed a moorland cottage, walled and roofed with stone, with no creeper to break its harsh outline. Suddenly we looked down into a cup-like depression, patched with stunted oaks and firs which had been twisted and bent by the fury of years of storm. Two high, narrow towers rose over the trees. The driver pointed with his whip.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Baskerville Hall,&quot; said he.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Its master had risen and was staring with flushed cheeks and shining eyes. A few minutes later we had reached the lodge-gates, a maze of fantastic tracery in wrought iron, with weather-bitten pillars on either side, blotched with lichens, and surmounted by the boars&apos; heads of the Baskervilles. The lodge was a ruin of black granite and bared ribs of rafters, but facing it was a new building, half constructed, the first fruit of Sir Charles&apos;s South African gold.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>Through the gateway we passed into the avenue, where the wheels were again hushed amid the leaves, and the old trees shot their branches in a sombre tunnel over our heads. Baskerville shuddered as he looked up the long, dark drive to where the house glimmered like a ghost at the farther end.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Was it here?&quot; he asked in a low voice.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;No, no, the Yew Alley is on the other side.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>The young heir glanced round with a gloomy face.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;It&apos;s no wonder my uncle felt as if trouble were coming on him in such a place as this,&quot; said he. &quot;It&apos;s enough to scare any man. I&apos;ll have a row of electric lamps up here inside of six months, and you won&apos;t know it again, with a thousand candle-power Swan and Edison right here in front of the hall door.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>The avenue opened into a broad expanse of turf, and the house lay before us. In the fading light I could see that the centre was a heavy block of building from which a porch projected. The whole front was draped in ivy, with a patch clipped bare here and there where a window or a coat-of-arms broke through the dark veil. From this central block rose the twin towers, ancient, crenelated, and pierced with many loopholes. To right and left of the turrets were more modern wings of black granite. A dull light shone through heavy mullioned windows, and from the high chimneys which rose from the steep, high-angled roof there sprang a single black column of smoke.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Welcome, Sir Henry! Welcome to Baskerville Hall!&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>A tall man had stepped from the shadow of the porch to open the door of the wagonette. The figure of a woman was silhouetted against the yellow light of the hall. She came out and helped the man to hand down our bags.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;You don&apos;t mind my driving straight home, Sir Henry?&quot; said Dr. Mortimer. &quot;My wife is expecting me.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Surely you will stay and have some dinner?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;No, I must go. I shall probably find some work awaiting me. I would stay to show you over the house, but Barrymore will be a better guide than I. Good-bye, and never hesitate night or day to send for me if I can be of service.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>The wheels died away down the drive while Sir Henry and I turned into the hall, and the door clanged heavily behind us. It was a fine apartment in which we found ourselves, large, lofty, and heavily raftered with huge balks of age-blackened oak. In the great old-fashioned fireplace behind the high iron dogs a log-fire crackled and snapped. Sir Henry and I held out our hands to it, for we were numb from our long drive. Then we gazed round us at the high, thin window of old stained glass, the oak panelling, the stags&apos; heads, the coats-of-arms upon the walls, all dim and sombre in the subdued light of the central lamp.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;It&apos;s just as I imagined it,&quot; said Sir Henry. &quot;Is it not the very picture of an old family home? To think that this should be the same hall in which for five hundred years my people have lived. It strikes me solemn to think of it.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>I saw his dark face lit up with a boyish enthusiasm as he gazed about him. The light beat upon him where he stood, but long shadows trailed down the walls and hung like a black canopy above him. Barrymore had returned from taking our luggage to our rooms. He stood in front of us now with the subdued manner of a well-trained servant. He was a remarkable-looking man, tall, handsome, with a square black beard and pale, distinguished features.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Would you wish dinner to be served at once, sir?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Is it ready?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;In a very few minutes, sir. You will find hot water in your rooms. My wife and I will be happy, Sir Henry, to stay with you until you have made your fresh arrangements, but you will understand that under the new conditions this house will require a considerable staff.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;What new conditions?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I only meant, sir, that Sir Charles led a very retired life, and we were able to look after his wants. You would, naturally, wish to have more company, and so you will need changes in your household.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Do you mean that your wife and you wish to leave?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;Only when it is quite convenient to you, sir.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;But your family have been with us for several generations, have they not? I should be sorry to begin my life here by breaking an old family connection.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>I seemed to discern some signs of emotion upon the butler&apos;s white face.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I feel that also, sir, and so does my wife. But to tell the truth, sir, we were both very much attached to Sir Charles, and his death gave us a shock and made these surroundings very painful to us. I fear that we shall never again be easy in our minds at Baskerville Hall.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;But what do you intend to do?&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;I have no doubt, sir, that we shall succeed in establishing ourselves in some business. Sir Charles&apos;s generosity has given us the means to do so. And now, sir, perhaps I had best show you to your rooms.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>A square balustraded gallery ran round the top of the old hall, approached by a double stair. From this central point two long corridors extended the whole length of the building, from which all the bedrooms opened. My own was in the same wing as Baskerville&apos;s and almost next door to it. These rooms appeared to be much more modern than the central part of the house, and the bright paper and numerous candles did something to remove the sombre impression which our arrival had left upon my mind.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>But the dining-room which opened out of the hall was a place of shadow and gloom. It was a long chamber with a step separating the dais where the family sat from the lower portion reserved for their dependents. At one end a minstrel&apos;s gallery overlooked it. Black beams shot across above our heads, with a smoke-darkened ceiling beyond them. With rows of flaring torches to light it up, and the colour and rude hilarity of an old-time banquet, it might have softened; but now, when two black-clothed gentlemen sat in the little circle of light thrown by a shaded lamp, one&apos;s voice became hushed and one&apos;s spirit subdued. A dim line of ancestors, in every variety of dress, from the Elizabethan knight to the buck of the Regency, stared down upon us and daunted us by their silent company. We talked little, and I for one was glad when the meal was over and we were able to retire into the modern billiard-room and smoke a cigarette.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>&quot;My word, it isn&apos;t a very cheerful place,&quot; said Sir Henry. &quot;I suppose one can tone down to it, but I feel a bit out of the picture at present. I don&apos;t wonder that my uncle got a little jumpy if he lived all alone in such a house as this. However, if it suits you, we will retire early to-night, and perhaps things may seem more cheerful in the morning.&quot;</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>I drew aside my curtains before I went to bed and looked out from my window. It opened upon the grassy space which lay in front of the hall door. Beyond, two copses of trees moaned and swung in a rising wind. A half moon broke through the rifts of racing clouds. In its cold light I saw beyond the trees a broken fringe of rocks, and the long, low curve of the melancholy moor. I closed the curtain, feeling that my last impression was in keeping with the rest.</p>
</div>
<p><br /></p>
<div class="mystyle_text-indent_1em">
<p>And yet it was not quite the last. I found myself weary and yet wakeful, tossing restlessly from side to side, seeking for the sleep which would not come. Far away a chiming clock struck out the quarters of the hours, but otherwise a deathly silence lay upon the old house. And then suddenly, in the very dead of the night, there came a sound to my ears, clear, resonant, and unmistakable. It was the sob of a woman, the muffled, strangling gasp of one who is torn by an uncontrollable sorrow. I sat up in bed and listened intently. The noise could not have been far away and was certainly in the house. For half an hour I waited with every nerve on the alert, but there came no other sound save the chiming clock and the rustle of the ivy on the wall.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>
